=pod

=head1 NAME

CPAN::Mini::Extract - Create CPAN::Mini mirrors with the archives extracted

=head1 SYNOPSIS

  # Create a CPAN extractor
  my $cpan = CPAN::Mini::Extract->new(
      remote         => 'http://mirrors.kernel.org/cpan/',
      local          => '/home/adam/.minicpan',
      trace          => 1,
      extract        => '/home/adam/.cpanextracted',
      extract_filter => sub { /\.pm$/ and ! /\b(inc|t)\b/ },
      extract_check  => 1,
  );
  
  # Run the minicpan process
  my $changes = $cpan->run;

=head1 DESCRIPTION

C<CPAN::Mini::Extract> provides a base for implementing systems that
download "all" of CPAN, extract the dists and then process the files
within.

It provides the same syncronisation functionality as L<CPAN::Mini> except
that it also maintains a parallel directory tree that contains a directory
located at an identical path to each archive file, with a controllable
subset of the files in the archive extracted below.

=head2 How does it work

C<CPAN::Mini::Extract> starts with a L<CPAN::Mini> local mirror, which it
will optionally update before each run. Once the L<CPAN::Mini> directory
is current, it will scan both directory trees, extracting any new archives
and removing any extracted archives no longer in the minicpan mirror.

=head1 EXTENDING

This class is relatively straight forward, but may evolve over time.

If you wish to write an extension, please stay in contact with the
maintainer while doing so.

=head1 METHODS

=head2 new

The C<new> constructor is used to create and configure a new CPAN
Processor. It takes a set of named params something like the following.

  # Create a CPAN processor
  my $Object = CPAN::Mini::Extract->new(
      # The normal CPAN::Mini params
      remote         => 'ftp://cpan.pair.com/pub/CPAN/',
      local          => '/home/adam/.minicpan',
      trace          => 1,
      
      # Additional params
      extract        => '/home/adam/explosion',
      extract_filter => sub { /\.pm$/ and ! /\b(inc|t)\b/ },
      extract_check  => 1,
      );

=over

=item minicpan args

C<CPAN::Mini::Extract> inherits from L<CPAN::Mini>, so all of the arguments
that can be used with L<CPAN::Mini> will also work with
C<CPAN::Mini::Extract>.

Please note that C<CPAN::Mini::Extract> applies some additional defaults
beyond the normal ones, like turning C<skip_perl> on.

=item offline

Although useless with L<CPAN::Mini> itself, the C<offline> flag will
cause the CPAN synchronisation step to be skipped, and only any
extraction tasks to be done. (False by default)

=item extract

Provides the directory (which must exist and be writable, or be creatable)
that the tarball dists should be extracted to.

=item extract_filter

C<CPAN::Mini::Extract> allows you to specify a filter controlling which
types of files are extracted from the Archive. Please note that ONLY
normal files are ever considered for extraction from an archive, with
any directories needed created automatically.

Although by default C<CPAN::Mini::Extract> only extract files of type .pm,
.t and .pl from the archives, you can add a list of additional things you
do not want to be extracted.

The filter should be provided as a subroutine reference. This sub will
be called with $_ set to the path of the file. The subroutine should
return true if the file is to be extracted, or false if not.

  # Extract all .pm files, except those in an include directory
  extract_filter => sub { /\.pm$/ and ! /\binc\b/ },

=item extract_check

The main extraction process is done as each new archive is downloaded,
but occasionally in a process this long-running something may go wrong
and you can end up with archives not extracted.

In addition, sometimes the processing of the extracted archives is
destructive and will result in them being deleted each run.

Once the mirror update has been completed, the C<extract_check> keyword
forces the processor to go back over every tarball in the mirror and
double check that it has a corrosponding extracted directory.

=item extract_force

For cases in which the filter has been changed, the C<extract_flush>
boolean flag can be used to forcefully delete and re-extract every
extracted directory.

=back

Returns a new C<CPAN::Mini::Extract> object, or dies on error.

=head2 run

The C<run> methods starts the main process, updating the minicpan mirror
and extracted version, and then launching the PPI Processor to process the
files in the source directory.

Returns the number of changes made to the local minicpan and extracted
directories, or dies on error.

=head1 SUPPORT

Bugs should always be submitted via the CPAN bug tracker

L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=CPAN-Mini-Extract>

For other issues, contact the maintainer

=head1 AUTHOR

Adam Kennedy E<lt>adamk@cpan.orgE<gt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CPAN::Mini>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Funding provided by The Perl Foundation.

Copyright 2005 - 2012 Adam Kennedy.

This program is free software; you can redistribute
it and/or modify it under the same terms as Perl itself.

The full text of the license can be found in the
LICENSE file included with this module.

=cut
